docs: documentation for restartable applications feature (#645)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/docs/tasks/restart-application-deployment/_index.md

---
title: Restart an Application Deployment

> description: Learn how to restart an unsuccessful Keptn Application Deployment .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to restart an unsuccessful Keptn Application Deployment.
```

icon: concepts
layout: quickstart
weight: 20
hidechildren: true # this flag hides all sub-pages in the sidebar-multicard.html
---

## Restart an Application Deployment

> During the deployment of a `KeptnApp`, it might be that the deployment fails due to a unsuccessful pre-deployment evaluation or pre-deployment check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the deployment of a `KeptnApp`, it might be that the deployment fails due to an unsuccessful pre-deployment evaluation or pre-deployment check.
```

> This might be because of, e.g., a misconfigured target value of a `KeptnEvaluationDefinition`, or of a wrong URL being checked in a pre deployment check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This could happen because of, e.g., a misconfigured target value of a `KeptnEvaluationDefinition`, or a wrong URL being checked in a pre deployment check.
```

> To retry an `KeptnApp` deployment without bumping up the version of the `KeptnApp`, we introduced the concept of **revisions** for a `KeptnAppVersion`. This means that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retry a `KeptnApp` deployment without incrementing the version of the `KeptnApp`, we introduced the concept of **revisions** for a `KeptnAppVersion`. This means that
```

whenever the spec of a `KeptnApp` changes, even though the version stays the same, the KLT Operator will create a new revision of the `KeptnAppVersion` referring to the `KeptnApp`.

This way, when a `KeptnApp` failed due to a misconfigured pre deployment task, you can first fix the configuration of the `KeptnTaskDefinition`/`KeptnEvaluationDefinition`, then

> increase the value of `spec.revision` of the `KeptnApp` and finally apply the updated `KeptnApp` manifest. Afterwards, all related `KeptnWorkloadInstances` will automatically refer to the newly
> created revision of the `KeptnAppVersion` to determine whether they are allowed to enter their respective deployment phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
increase the value of `spec.revision` of the `KeptnApp` and finally apply the updated `KeptnApp` manifest.
This will result in a restart of the `KeptnApp`.
Afterwards, all related `KeptnWorkloadInstances` will automatically refer to the newly
created revision of the `KeptnAppVersion` to determine whether they are allowed to enter their respective deployment phase.
```

        process.exit(1)
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: podtato-head-entry
  namespace: restartable-apps
  labels:
    app: podtato-head
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      component: podtato-head-entry
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        component: podtato-head-entry
        keptn.sh/workload: podtato-head-entry
        keptn.sh/app: podtato-head
        keptn.sh/version: "0.1.2"
    spec:
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 5
      containers:
        - name: server
          image: ghcr.io/podtato-head/entry:0.2.7
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          ports:
            - containerPort: 9000
          env:
            - name: PODTATO_PORT
              value: "9000"
```

In this example, the `KeptnApp` executes a pre deployment check which clearly fails, and will therefore not be able to proceed with the deployment.

After applying this manifest, you can inspect the status of the created `KeptnAppVersion`:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversions.lifecycle.keptn.sh -n restartable-apps
NAME                   APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-0.1.1-1   podtato-head   0.1.1     AppPreDeployTasks
```

> You will notice that the `KeptnAppVersion` will stay in the `AppPreDeployTasks` phase for a while, due to the pre-check trying to be 
> executed until a certain failure threshold is reached. Eventually, you will find the `KeptnAppVersion`'s `PredeploymentPhase` to be in a `Failed` state,
> with the remaining phases being `Deprecated`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will notice that the `KeptnAppVersion` will stay in the `AppPreDeployTasks` phase for a while, due to the pre-check trying to run until a certain failure threshold is reached.
Eventually, you will find the `KeptnAppVersion`'s `PredeploymentPhase` to be in a `Failed` state, with the remaining phases being `Deprecated`.
```

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversions.lifecycle.keptn.sh -n restartable-apps -owide
NAME                   APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE               PREDEPLOYMENTSTATUS   PREDEPLOYMENTEVALUATIONSTATUS   WORKLOADOVERALLSTATUS   POSTDEPLOYMENTSTATUS   POSTDEPLOYMENTEVALUATIONSTATUS
podtato-head-0.1.1-1   podtato-head   0.1.1     AppPreDeployTasks   Failed                Deprecated                      Deprecated              Deprecated             Deprecated
```

> Now, to fix the deployment of this application is to first fix the task that has failed earlier. To do so, edit the
> `pre-deployment-check` `KeptnTaskDefinition` to the following (`kubectl -n restartable-apps edit keptntaskdefinitions.lifecycle.keptn.sh pre-deployment-check`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, to fix the deployment of this application, we first need to fix the task that has failed earlier.
To do so, edit the `pre-deployment-check` `KeptnTaskDefinition` to the following (`kubectl -n restartable-apps edit keptntaskdefinitions.lifecycle.keptn.sh pre-deployment-check`):
```

```yaml
apiVersion: lifecycle.keptn.sh/v1alpha2
kind: KeptnTaskDefinition
metadata:
  name: pre-deployment-check
  namespace: restartable-apps
spec:
  function:
    inline:
      code: |
        console.error("Success")
```

> After we have done that, we can restart the deployment of our `KeptnApplication` by increasing the `spec.revision` field by one 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After we have done that, we can restart the deployment of our `KeptnApplication` by incrementing the `spec.revision` field by one 
```

(`kubectl -n restartable-apps edit keptnapps.lifecycle.keptn.sh podtato-head`):

```yaml
apiVersion: lifecycle.keptn.sh/v1alpha2
kind: KeptnApp
metadata:
  name: podtato-head
  namespace: restartable-apps
spec:
  version: "0.1.1"
  revision: 2 # Increased this value from 1 to 2
  workloads:
    - name: podtato-head-entry
      version: "0.1.2"
  preDeploymentTasks:
    - pre-deployment-check
```

> After those changes have been made, you'll notice a new revision of the `podtato-head` `KeptnAppVersion`: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After those changes have been made, you will notice a new revision of the `podtato-head` `KeptnAppVersion`: 
```

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversions.lifecycle.keptn.sh -n restartable-apps       
NAME                   APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-0.1.1-1   podtato-head   0.1.1     AppPreDeployTasks
podtato-head-0.1.1-2   podtato-head   0.1.1     AppDeploy
```

As you will see, the newly created revision `podtato-head-0.1.1-2` has made it beyond the preDeployment check phase and has reached its `AppDeployPhase`.

You can also verify the execution of the `pre-deployment-check` by retrieving the list of `KeptnTasks` in the `restartable-apps` namespace:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptntasks.lifecycle.keptn.sh -n restartable-apps
NAME                             APPNAME        APPVERSION   WORKLOADNAME   WORKLOADVERSION   JOB NAME                              STATUS
pre-pre-deployment-check-49827   podtato-head   0.1.1                                         klc-pre-pre-deployment-check--77601   Failed
pre-pre-deployment-check-65056   podtato-head   0.1.1                                         klc-pre-pre-deployment-check--57313   Succeeded
```

> You'll notice that for both the `KeptnAppVersions` and `KeptnTasks` the previous failed instances are still available, as this might be useful historical data to keep track of 
> what went wrong during earlier deployment attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will notice that for both the `KeptnAppVersions` and `KeptnTasks` the previous failed instances are still available, as this might be useful historical data to keep track of 
what went wrong during earlier deployment attempts.
```

---
title: Restart an Application Deployment
description: Learn how to restart an unsuccessful Keptn Application Deployment.
icon: concepts
layout: quickstart
weight: 20
hidechildren: true # this flag hides all sub-pages in the sidebar-multicard.html
---

## Restart an Application Deployment

> During the deployment of a `KeptnApp`, it might be that the deployment fails due to an unsuccessful pre-deployment evaluation or pre-deployment check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the deployment of a `KeptnApp`, it might be that the deployment fails due to an unsuccessful pre-deployment evaluation or pre-deployment task.
```

This could happen because of, e.g., a misconfigured target value of a `KeptnEvaluationDefinition`, or a wrong URL being checked in a pre deployment check.

To retry a `KeptnApp` deployment without incrementing the version of the `KeptnApp`, we introduced the concept of **revisions** for a `KeptnAppVersion`. This means that
whenever the spec of a `KeptnApp` changes, even though the version stays the same, the KLT Operator will create a new revision of the `KeptnAppVersion` referring to the `KeptnApp`.

> This way, when a `KeptnApp` failed due to a misconfigured pre deployment task, you can first fix the configuration of the `KeptnTaskDefinition`/`KeptnEvaluationDefinition`, then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This way, when a `KeptnApp` failed due to a misconfigured pre-deployment check, you can first fix the configuration of the `KeptnTaskDefinition`/`KeptnEvaluationDefinition`, then
```

kind: KeptnApp
metadata:
  name: podtato-head
  namespace: restartable-apps
spec:
  version: "0.1.1"
  revision: 1
  workloads:
    - name: podtato-head-entry
      version: "0.1.2"
  preDeploymentTasks:
    - pre-deployment-check
---
apiVersion: lifecycle.keptn.sh/v1alpha2
kind: KeptnTaskDefinition
metadata:
  name: pre-deployment-check
  namespace: restartable-apps
spec:
  function:
    inline:
      code: |
        console.error("I failed")
        process.exit(1)
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: podtato-head-entry
  namespace: restartable-apps
  labels:
    app: podtato-head
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      component: podtato-head-entry
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        component: podtato-head-entry
        keptn.sh/workload: podtato-head-entry
        keptn.sh/app: podtato-head
        keptn.sh/version: "0.1.2"
    spec:
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 5
      containers:
        - name: server
          image: ghcr.io/podtato-head/entry:0.2.7
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          ports:
            - containerPort: 9000
          env:
            - name: PODTATO_PORT
              value: "9000"
```

> In this example, the `KeptnApp` executes a pre deployment check which clearly fails, and will therefore not be able to proceed with the deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the `KeptnApp` executes a pre deployment check which clearly fails due to the pre-deployment-check task, and will therefore not be able to proceed with the deployment.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: lifecycle.keptn.sh/v1alpha2
kind: KeptnTaskDefinition
metadata:
  name: pre-deployment-check
  namespace: restartable-apps
spec:
  function:
    inline:
      code: |
        console.error("Success")
```

After we have done that, we can restart the deployment of our `KeptnApplication` by incrementing the `spec.revision` field by one 
(`kubectl -n restartable-apps edit keptnapps.lifecycle.keptn.sh podtato-head`):

```yaml
apiVersion: lifecycle.keptn.sh/v1alpha2
kind: KeptnApp
metadata:
  name: podtato-head
  namespace: restartable-apps
spec:
  version: "0.1.1"
  revision: 2 # Increased this value from 1 to 2
  workloads:
    - name: podtato-head-entry
      version: "0.1.2"
  preDeploymentTasks:
    - pre-deployment-check
```

After those changes have been made, you will notice a new revision of the `podtato-head` `KeptnAppVersion`: 

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversions.lifecycle.keptn.sh -n restartable-apps       
NAME                   APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-0.1.1-1   podtato-head   0.1.1     AppPreDeployTasks
podtato-head-0.1.1-2   podtato-head   0.1.1     AppDeploy
```

> As you will see, the newly created revision `podtato-head-0.1.1-2` has made it beyond the preDeployment check phase and has reached its `AppDeployPhase`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you will see, the newly created revision `podtato-head-0.1.1-2` has made it beyond the pre-deployment check phase and has reached its `AppDeployPhase`.
```
